Welcome back.
We saw that we had an issue here where we need to create our daquiri databases or our postscripts databases
in Dr..
And when we first did this on our machine we had to open up the sequel and manually create this using
the query table.
And again another reason the reason we're using docker is so that developers don't have to keep doing
this over and over and over as they join the team.
So let's build that out as part of the doc or bill
going to minimize this a little bit.
And I'm going to go into our project folder and create a new folder.
It's going to be called postscripts And this video might be a little bit difficult but it's a great
set up that once you remember then you just repeat it on numerous project numerous projects and just
do it the way it is now.
So you can always come back to this video as long as you follow along and understand what we're trying
to do how we're connecting the dots.
That's the important part.
So I just created a postscripts folder in here.
We're going to create a new file and it's going to be a docker file.
Now this stalker file is going to now do something really interesting instead of docker compose where
we just had our image set up with no other Builth steps.
We're actually going to customize this.
I'm going to say that I want postscripts version ten point three.
And this can be whatever you want it to be.
And in here I want to add a few files inside of the dock or container.
I'm going to use the command add because I want to add the tables folder which we're going to create
in here to the docker.
Let's call it entry point in it.
D.B and this is going to be a dot defile tables.
All right.
What just happened here.
This first file is saying that we want to create our users and log in table.
And the way we're going to do that is we're going to create a new folder in our postscripts folder called
Tables which is referenced here.
Now within this table's folder I'm going to have two files I'm going to have the log in table which
uses a dot as well file type and a another table called users which again uses the rescue all file to.
Now the file type we just are able to write you all commands inside of this.
So if we go back to how we create our users table and I just copy and paste this
I can just say create table users.
I have some nice syntax again Id of serial primary key.
We have a name that has variable character with limit of 100 email that is a text type that has to be
unique and cannot be No.
We have an trees that is big integer that is it can go up pretty pretty high in number and the default
is going to be 0.
So when the first register there are going to be 0 and then our joint time stamp not no.
These are just basic obscure commands to start create a table something that you can look over and really
depends on each situation.
Now another good practice when you're working with obscure all files is to do something called transactions
that is to make sure that this transaction completes and it doesn't half fill the users table or we
want to make sure that these things are what we call atomic.
That is if this fails or part of it fails then just don't bother creating the users table at all because
there's just going to mess things up.
So the syntax for this is to say begin transaction.
And again this is just good practice that the syntax that you have to use to make sure I the right began
transaction.
And then finally at the end of the transaction we say commit.
I said yes commit those create table changes.
So we have our users table if we go back let's grab our log in tables as well.
If I go back to my history Well I don't have the history so we'll have to write it all by hand again
as we remember begin transaction
and go on to create table
luggin and this log and table groups now something we wanted to do was go back circular brackets is
going to have an ID of again serial primary
it's going to have a hash of variable character a hundred and it cannot be No.
And then finally it's going to have the email that is of text has to be unique and it's not null and
we don't need a comma here.
Finally semicolon and we want to commit this all right.
So we've just created to rescue all files but they're not really doing anything right now are they.
Luckily for us there is another Escorial file that we can use and this one we're just going to put at
the root of the post-crash folder.
And I'm going to call it deploy schemas because these are schemas that we're deploying.
And again it's going to be a dot Eskew all file
now within here I can comment and just say that this is deploy Frash database tables
now in here we're going to do backslash.
And this is going to run the new file that we're going to create now and here in our Dr far remember
how we said at the table folder that we just created in its table so make sure I say tables here to
the docker and touchpoint dush Doddie that table.
So this is the folder we're going to create on our container.
I can actually just copy this go back to the deploy schema and say run the tables.
That is the use and let's run the users.
As you all table because in the doc or compose file or the doc or file We're moving whatever's in the
tables which is log in and users to this table thing.
So the deploy is simply saying run this secure command.
We just create.
Which again is the users table.
And we can do the same for the log and table.
Now we have the tables we have the deploy.
The last thing we need to do is actually run this file in the container.
And the way we called this is once again in the doc profile we add another line saying add and this
time because we're just adding the deploy schema Eskew all I'm going to say deploy schemas Don Pascual
into the main folder like this.
Now let's save and see if there's any errors.
As we run this I'm going to close down everything run docker composed down and then go with Doc or compose
built.
All right.
If you actually see up here you see that there is a create database called that was made.
So let's see if it actually works.
Now if I go back to my app so let's give it another go here.
Let's see if we can register now.
We have bad requests.
Let's see what we got wrong here.
And again we have to think about what we're doing.
Frigo to docker compose remember how we're just building the postscripts from Image.
And we don't want to do that anymore.
We have a docker file and I remember any time we need to use a docker file we want to run build.
So instead of image I can say build.
And what do we want to build.
We want to build whatever's inside of postscripts or whatever doc follows at the root of postscripts
in our case we can just write it like this.
Let's say this again bring the service down.
Oh and make sure that I add the dots here.
And come on back up.
All right let's make the output a little bit bigger.
And if we scroll up look of that in our postscripts output we have creative role create database but
also begin because remember we began a transaction we created a table we committed another transaction
that created another table.
So it looks like everything is running.
The databases were created.
If I go back again and rerun this let's open up the terminal make sure that we don't get any errors
clear this and I won't hit register WOO-HOO who we just registered and we have 10 in here and let's
just add a image here.
Let's go with whatever face we can find.
Let's use this one.
Look at that.
Her smart brain app is finally working.
It's the exact same thing as we've done before.
Nothing's changed on the Front-End but oh boy has a lot changed on the back and we now have all this
amazing logging but post Chris and back and are running inside of the same command.
Not only do we not have to worry about setting up a table making sure that a developer has postscripts
installed on their computer.
The right no diversion on their computer.
All they had to do was simply run this command docker compose up build and our entire back end system
was just like that already set up.
Now the beauty with this is that because we run docker up build Toccara build all the time it takes
time right.
But you actually once you build it once and there's no changes that you want to make.
He can just surround doc compose up and it's a lot faster this way.
He doesn't rebuild everything from the Rockefeller.
Very cool.
I hope you're excited as I am about Dr..
There's one last thing I want to add and I'll see in the next video.